# PawPal+ Project Reflection

## 1. System Design

**a. Initial design**

- Briefly describe your initial UML design.

The UML design presents the flow of data from the user to the generated result. The user
enters their name, their pet's name, their pet's species, and any tasks that they need
to complete. The scheduler then takes this information and performs an LLM query which augments each task with a generated start time, and the reasoning for that generation. These transformed
tasks are then placed in a list which is used to output the schedule to the user and explain
the reasoning for why the schedule was constructed that way.

- What classes did you include, and what responsibilities did you assign to each?

Owner <br>
-> string name <br>
-> Pet pet <br>
-> preferences (schedule constraints, notes about pet, available minutes, max duration per task)<br><br>

Pet<br>
-> string name<br>
-> string species<br><br>

CareTask<br>
-> string title<br>
-> int duration in minutes<br>
-> enum priority<br><br>

ScheduledTask<br>
-> CareTask task<br>
-> string start time (generated by LLM API)<br>
-> string reason (generated by LLM API)<br><br>

Scheduler<br>
-> function build plan (params: Owner, tasks (the list that streamlit creates for input))<br>
    returns DailySchedule<br><br>

DailySchedule<br>
-> list of ScheduledTask called tasks<br>
-> function explain (combines and outputs the reasons generated by LLM API (not generated itself))<br>
    returns a string (the explanation to the user)<br><br>

ClaudeAPI<br>
-> function reason (params: owner, task (each task in list))<br>
    returns start time and reasoning in ScheduledTask<br><br>

I included a .mmd file to reflect the structure of the classes and relationships.<br>

**b. Design changes**

- Did your design change during implementation?

Yes, some parameter redundancies were fixed for the Scheduler. The class diagram itself went through different iterations (about 4 drafts) because Claude isn't very good at visualizing
the logic and relationships.

- If yes, describe at least one change and why you made it.

As stated above, I changed the parameters for the Scheduler from "(owner, tasks, available_minutes)" to "(owner, tasks)" because available_minutes is an attribute of Owner.

---

## 2. Scheduling Logic and Tradeoffs

**a. Constraints and priorities**

- What constraints does your scheduler consider (for example: time, priority, preferences)?

It considers schedule constraints such as the wake time, notes about pet (ex. my pet hasn't been feeling well), overall minutes for pet care, strict max duration per task

- How did you decide which constraints mattered most?

The main issue was with the app's original state. As is, it doesn't fit each task in a real time slot, or doesn't intelligently order them. So I got the idea of adding an inference layer to have a model do that for me.

**b. Tradeoffs**

- Describe one tradeoff your scheduler makes.

The trade off is consuming tokens using your anthropic token. Also the API call kind of takes awhile to retrieve a response. The formatting is not optimal because I ran out of time.

- Why is that tradeoff reasonable for this scenario?

Because it's a pretty simple toy application and we won't perform many queries.

---

## 3. AI Collaboration

**a. How you used AI**

- How did you use AI tools during this project (for example: design brainstorming, debugging, refactoring)?

Used Claude for brainstorming. It suggested a good class diagram accompanied with mermaid script. It also helped me figure out what constraints could be made to make this an interesting app. Claude also emphasized that the app needed a Claude API call to generate reasoning whenever the user clicks the generate schedule button. Also used Claude to help me connect the anthropic API and how to use it. 

- What kinds of prompts or questions were most helpful?

"what objects do i need for the following bare bones application?"
"What intent should this app have that is currently lacking?"
"generate a mermaid script based on the class structure"

**b. Judgment and verification**

- Describe one moment where you did not accept an AI suggestion as-is.

So the model had trouble understanding how the form information from the frontend was going to be passed to the backend. It did not consider how the frontend constructed a list of dictionaries, rather it assumed that we would get every field as a single data type, strings.
Also, the model was going to call the api once per task which is problematic because in order to generate a useful schedule, we need to know how all of the tasks relate to each other. For example, if feeding my pet is a high priority but also calling the vet because my pet has been lethargic all week, it would not know to schedule the vet call first because each task is analyzed separately by the API call.

- How did you evaluate or verify what the AI suggested?

Reading the code, and asking Claude to examine further why its making a mistake at specific lines or blocks.

---

## 4. Testing and Verification

**a. What you tested**

- What behaviors did you test?

Tested to see if the JSON response was correctly formatted in which case is was not. Had to prompt claude to fix it and it used a filter to get rid of markdown code that was appended to the response.

- Why were these tests important?

The app breaks if the formatting isn't correct.

**b. Confidence**

- How confident are you that your scheduler works correctly?

It works really well!

- What edge cases would you test next if you had more time?

Edge case is that if you add enough tasks that exceeds the available time that the owner has, the application will not add it to the generated schedule. Ideally, I'd want to implement an exceeding error on the front end to make sure the owner inputs the correct time within the constraints set by "time available".

---

## 5. Reflection

**a. What went well**

- What part of this project are you most satisfied with?

I'm pretty satisfied with how the end product turned out. Adding an inference layer really opened my eyes to AI is allowing creative and new application experiences.

**b. What you would improve**

- If you had another iteration, what would you improve or redesign?

I would improve on error handling, rendering better outputs with better visuals, and play with streamlits state feature better (actually add tasks to state).

**c. Key takeaway**

- What is one important thing you learned about designing systems or working with AI on this project?

I learned that the combination between systems understanding, AI, and a thorough planning stage, will help you create a pretty solid application at a pretty fast rate.
